Doc/chapters/GUI.adoc, before:

= 2.1 GUI understanding 

====== link:../README.adoc[Summary]

=== GUI Class Diagram

image:../assets/GUIClassDiagram.png[GUIClassDiagram]

=== Rows definition +
This visualization displays the list of the voters on the first column and for each of them, their associated preference on the same row.

Example :

image:../assets/rowsVisualization.png[rowsVisualization]

_Example based on the current GUI_

In the case above, Voter 2 chose to put the 10th alternative at the first rank, the 1st at the second rank and the 3rd at the last rank. 

=== Columns definition +
This visualization displays the list of the voters on the first row and for each of them, their associated preference on the same column.

Example :

image:../assets/columnsVisualization.png[columnsVisualization]

_Example based on the current GUI_

In the case above, Voter 6 chose to put the 2nd alternative at the first rank, the 5th at the second rank and the 7th at the last rank. 

=== Wrapped definition +
This visualization enables to see how many voters have the same preference ( in other words the same order of alternatives). This number is displayed on the row at the top of the table and below the order we are talking about.

Example :

image:../assets/wrappedVisualization.png[wrappedVisualization]

_Example based on the current GUI_

In the case above, 263 Voters have chosen the same preference. They put the 2nd alternative at the first rank, then the 1st and the 3rd one to finish.

=== GUI Usage System

image:../assets/GUIUseCaseDiagram.png[GUIUseCaseDiagram]

Currently, the GUI enables the user to view a SOC profile (either in rows, columns or wrapped visualization). For the moment the GUI only accepts .soc files already filled.

We plan to allow the user to create a profile through the graphical user interface. In other words, the user should be able to create a profile file, alternatives, voters and complete preferences. Moreover, the user will be able to modify an existing profile by adding some voters (with their preference) and to reorganize preferences (for a strict profile). Therefore, we plan to implement additional methods in the GUI classes.

=== GUI Modeling

image:../assets/GUIMainMenu.png[GUIMainMenu]

We used link:https://wireframesketcher.com/[WireFrame Sketcher]  to design a modeling of our project. You can look at the interactive link:https://github.com/Julienchilhagopian/J-Voting/raw/master/Doc/model/storyboard.pdf[PDF] (download to be able to benefit from the interactions) to better understand our GUI.

The GUI works with a tab system, it is possible to switch from editing to viewing and vice versa for the same file. When you open the application, you will be taken to the profile edition tab. When you click to name the profile, a soc file is created with the current information. It is then possible to modify them by changing the order of the alternatives, adding or deleting alternatives and voters. It is also possible to rename them. 

We can also open an existing file and make the same changes. Each modification is saved in real time on the file. The file is then automatically saved in a defined folder. It is possible to open the view tab to be able to consult a profile.

link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nota_bene[NB]: At startup, the input boxes are grayed out to indicate that no file is created. If you just want to open an existing file without creating a new one, do not touch the input boxes.

Commit message:

Add sequence diagram to the doc

Doc/chapters/GUI.adoc, after:

= 2.1 GUI understanding 

====== link:../README.adoc[Summary]

=== GUI Class Diagram

image:../assets/GUIClassDiagram.png[GUIClassDiagram]

=== Rows definition +
This visualization displays the list of the voters on the first column and for each of them, their associated preference on the same row.

Example :

image:../assets/rowsVisualization.png[rowsVisualization]

_Example based on the current GUI_

In the case above, Voter 2 chose to put the 10th alternative at the first rank, the 1st at the second rank and the 3rd at the last rank. 

=== Columns definition +
This visualization displays the list of the voters on the first row and for each of them, their associated preference on the same column.

Example :

image:../assets/columnsVisualization.png[columnsVisualization]

_Example based on the current GUI_

In the case above, Voter 6 chose to put the 2nd alternative at the first rank, the 5th at the second rank and the 7th at the last rank. 

=== Wrapped definition +
This visualization enables to see how many voters have the same preference ( in other words the same order of alternatives). This number is displayed on the row at the top of the table and below the order we are talking about.

Example :

image:../assets/wrappedVisualization.png[wrappedVisualization]

_Example based on the current GUI_

In the case above, 263 Voters have chosen the same preference. They put the 2nd alternative at the first rank, then the 1st and the 3rd one to finish.

=== GUI Usage System

image:../assets/GUIUseCaseDiagram.png[GUIUseCaseDiagram]

Currently, the GUI enables the user to view a SOC profile (either in rows, columns or wrapped visualization). For the moment the GUI only accepts .soc files already filled.

We plan to allow the user to create a profile through the graphical user interface. In other words, the user should be able to create a profile file, alternatives, voters and complete preferences. Moreover, the user will be able to modify an existing profile by adding some voters (with their preference) and to reorganize preferences (for a strict profile). Therefore, we plan to implement additional methods in the GUI classes.

==== Sequence diagram of the current way to visualize a profile (the user provides a correct SOC file)

image:../assets/SequenceDiagramViewProfile.png[SequenceDiagramViewProfile]

=== GUI Modeling

image:../assets/GUIMainMenu.png[GUIMainMenu]

We used link:https://wireframesketcher.com/[WireFrame Sketcher]  to design a modeling of our project. You can look at the interactive link:https://github.com/Julienchilhagopian/J-Voting/raw/master/Doc/model/storyboard.pdf[PDF] (download to be able to benefit from the interactions) to better understand our GUI.

The GUI works with a tab system, it is possible to switch from editing to viewing and vice versa for the same file. When you open the application, you will be taken to the profile edition tab. When you click to name the profile, a soc file is created with the current information. It is then possible to modify them by changing the order of the alternatives, adding or deleting alternatives and voters. It is also possible to rename them. 

We can also open an existing file and make the same changes. Each modification is saved in real time on the file. The file is then automatically saved in a defined folder. It is possible to open the view tab to be able to consult a profile.

link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nota_bene[NB]: At startup, the input boxes are grayed out to indicate that no file is created. If you just want to open an existing file without creating a new one, do not touch the input boxes.
